I am an analyst in the Olist company in the Payments & Monetisation department, which is responsible for understanding my clients' (merchants who are on Olist platform) data from a payments perspective. As it is quite a big company, it has a separate department that improves SaaS (Software as a Service) products with my help. My analysis plays an important role in what kind of product changes are implemented and whether the company manages to optimize its efforts in growing its revenue. My main stakeholder is the product manager in the Payments & Monetisation team, but occasionally, I get requests from other departments, since I am a company expert on transactional payments data.

I use a single database called olist_db consisting of transactional payments and orders data from Olist of 100k orders from 2016 to 2018. There are 8+1 datasets to play with and explore.

Olist is a Brazilian marketplace that operates in the e-commerce segment but is not an e-commerce service itself. It has operated as a SaaS (Software as a Service) technology company since 2015. It offers a marketplace solution (of the e-commerce segment) to shopkeepers of all sizes (and for most segments) to increase their sales whether they have an online presence or not. Olist’s solution consists of three aspects: Software, Contracts with the main marketplaces, and Reputation sharing.

Olist describes its operations as follows:

Olist is a large department store within marketplaces Olist is connected to the main e-commerce of Brazil. Olist does not buy products, does not keep products in stock, and does not carry out shipping of any products offered in its store All products are sold and shipped by the thousands of shopkeepers (registered on Olist) who sell through Olist. Olist strength lies in the union of all participating shopkeepers, who are selling physical products. Olist shops are responsible for separating, packing, and taking products to the logistics operator

It is quite similar to Amazon, without logistics support.
